# Terraform Modules

This repository contains Terraform Modules for use in configurations.

## Developing a module

### Development Environment

This project uses [devcontainers](https://containers.dev/) to provide a
consistent developer experience. All required tools and settings are defined
in the devcontainer config file `.devcontainer/devcontainer.json`.

### Create a new module

From the project root run `make module <module-name>`. The new module
 can be found under the `modules` directory.

The make target creates a complete skeleton module for you.  You can cd into
the module directory and run `make test`. The example should run without error.
Once you have verified that the skeleton project works you can begin coding
it's functionality.

#### Module Layout

The template module is based on
[this](https://www.terraform.io/language/modules/develop/structure) article.
There are a few modifications (`test/` and `versions.tf`).  This layout is the
minimum... you may need to add to it.  For example you might create a
`modules/` directory to contain embedded submodules.

```text
terraform-my-module
├── examples                    < - Example usage of the module goes here.
│   └── simple                      All modules should include at least one.
│       └── main.tf
├── main.tf                     < - The main functionality of the module goes here.
├── outputs.tf                  < - Module outputs.
├── test                        < - Terratest tests go here.
│   ├── go.mod
│   ├── go.sum
│   └── integration_test.go
├── variables.tf                < - Module variables go here.
└── versions.tf                 < - Module requirements go here.
```

### Documentation

This repo uses `terraform-docs` via `pre-commit` to automatically generate
documentation of variables, outputs, and requirements.  Additionally you should
provide guidance by editing the header section of the module's `main.tf` file.
The skeleton includes a header comment that looks like this:

```text
/**
  * <!-- This comment will become the header of README.md.
  *      Include any important information here.
  *      Note that the `variables`, `outputs`, and provider
  *      requirements will be autogenerated... There is no
  *      need to include them here ==!>
  * # terraform-my-module
  *
*/
```

This will be converted to markdown and included at the top of README.md. You
should write a sentence about how and when to use this module.

## Using this repo

### Publishing a module

After creating your module follow these steps to publish it:

* Create a new branch `git checkout -b <my-new-module>`.
* Stage your changes `git add -A`, or add files individually (be careful not
  to add unintended files).
* Commit your changes `git commit`

  ```text
  Note:
  This repository uses [Conventional Commit]
  (https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) messages to manage release
  tags.  Your commit message must be identifiable as a `feature` or a `fix` to
  be releasble.
  ```

* Ensure that all `pre-commit` checks have passed.  Some hooks may alter
  staged files.  If files are changed the commit will fail.  You must re-stage
  these files before attempting to commit again. Other checks may fail without
  making changes.  In these the check should tell you what the issues is. You
  will need to remedy the error before a commit will succeed.
* `git push` your branch and open a Pull Request against `develop`.
* The CI system will run Terratest against the `test/` directory for all
  modules that have been modified in your branch.  All tests must pass in order
  for the PR to become mergeable.

### Modifting the `.template`

`.template` contains the definition used to create new modules via the `module`
make target.  This template may be modified if needed, but existing modules
will not automatically be updated.  The template directory is rendered by the
[gomplate](https://docs.gomplate.ca/) utility, see its documentation to learn
its capabilities.  Currently only `MODULENAME` is passed in as a variable.
